#This is the codebook for this project. In it I explain how I arrived at the results, starting from the instructions in the course webpage.

* Step 0:  I downloaded the zipped files at https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip. These I unzipped normally on my laptop. 
* Step 1: In R I set my working directory to"./UCI HAR Dataset" and there read the required files in R. The following dataframes resulted: **act_labels**, **features**, **sub_test**, **Xtest**, **ytest**, **sub_train**, **Xtrain**, **ytrain**. I column-binded the train and test data separately, obtaining dataframes **train** and **test** respectively. Then, I row-binded **train** and **test** dataframes together to obtain my initial dataframe, that I named **my_data**. 
* Step 2: I created (from the **features** dataframe) a vector of column-indices, called *indices*, to denote the columns having "mean()" or "std()" in their name. Then I used *indices* to select only those columns, plus the first and last column denoting subjects and activity respectively. The resulted dataframe was named **my_data_selected**. In this dataframe I have the first column denoting the subjects; I named this column/variable "Volunteer_ID". The last column denotes the activity performed for taking the various measurements; I named this column/variable "Activity_Perfomed". The remaining columns/variables got the names they had in the **features** dataframe.
* Step 3: In this step, we give descriptive names to the performed activities, instead of numbers. Also, we still simplify the dataframe by removing some columns having "meanFreq" in their name, as the project required only the mean and standard deviation for the measurements and "meanFreq" meant "Weighted average of the frequency components to obtain a mean frequency". We saved the results in the dataframe **my_data_selected_plus**. Admitedly, the last step could have been done as part of step 2, but as I prepared for the next step it became more apparent that the "meanFreq" columns were adding an extra layer of complexity that was not needed.
* Step 4: In this step we simply rename all the variables so that they contain inteligible descriptions.
* Step 5: In this step, we first create the **final_data** dataframe, that is **my_data_selected_plus** grouped by *Volunteer_ID* and *Activity_Performed*. Then, we create the final dataframe required by the project, named **final**, that contains the averages of all variables (minus *Volunteer_ID* and *Activity_Performed*) for each person and each activity. Somehow, the names of the grouping variables remain complicated, so we re-name them again.
* Last step: We write the **final** dataframe to a file named **my_submission.txt**. We then create a new repository in Github and upload there this file and the **final** dataframe, write the current CodeBook as well the the Readme file.
